.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii foo.1
.\"
.TH TERMIT 1 "NOV 2008" Linux "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
termit \(hy lightweight terminal emulator
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B termit [\-option ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B termit
is a vte\(hybased lightweight terminal emulator. All configuration
is done via Lua\(hyscripts. The only other dependencies are 
Gtk+ and Vte.
.SH OPTIONS
.BR \-h,
.BR \-\-help
.RS
Print help
.RE
.BR \-v,
.BR \-\-version
.RS
Print version number
.RE
.BR \-e,
.BR \-\-execute
=
.I cmd
.RS
Use
.I cmd
as shell
.RE
.BR \-i,
.BR \-\-init
=
.I file
.RS
Use
.I file
instead of default rc.lua
.RE
.BR \-n,
.BR \-\-name
=
.I name
.RS
Use
.I name
in window name hint
.RE
.BR \-c,
.BR \-\-class
=
.I class
.RS
Use
.I class
in window class hint
.RE
.BR \-r,
.BR \-\-role
=
.I role
.RS
Use
.I role
in window role Gtk\(hyhint
.RE
.BR \-T,
.BR \-\-title
=
.I title
.RS
Use
.I title
in window title (Turns off
.I allowChangingTitle
option.)
.RE
.P
termit \-\-init=session.lua \-\-name=TermitName \-\-class=TermitClass \-\-role=TermitRole \-\-title=TermitTitle \-\-execute=zsh
.P
.RE
.SH FILES
.I $HOME/.config/termit/rc.lua
.RS
Per user configuration file. See section
.BR "TERMIT LUA API"
for further details.
.RE
.I /usr/share/doc/termit/rc.lua.example
.RS
Example rc.lua file. Demonstrates usage of almost all available settings.
.SH "TERMIT LUA API"
.B "Functions:"

.B activateTab
(
.I tab_index
)
    Activates tab by index.
    tab_index \(hy index of tab to activate. Index of the first tab is 1.
.P
.B addMenu
(
.I menu
)
    Adds menu in menubar.
    menu \(hy table of TermitMenuItem type.
.P
.B addPopupMenu
(
.I menu
)
    Adds menu in popup menu, similar to addMenu.
    menu \(hy table of TermitMenuItem type.
.P
.B bindKey
(
.I keys
,
.I luaFunction
)
    Sets new keybinding. If luaFunction is 
.I nil
removes keybinding.
    keys \(hy string with keybinding. Available modifiers are Alt Ctrl Shift Meta Super Hyper.
    luaFunction \(hy callback function
.P
.B bindMouse
(
.I event
,
.I luaFunction
)
    Sets new mouse\(hybinding. If luaFunction is 
.I nil
removes mouse\(hybinding.
    event \(hy string with one of those values: DoubleClick
    luaFunction \(hy callback function
.P
.B closeTab
()
    Closes active tab.
.P
.B copy
()
    Copies selection into tab's buffer.
.P
.B currentTab
()
    Returns current tab of TermitTabInfo.
.P
.B currentTabIndex
()
    Returns current tab index.
.P
.B feed
(
.I
data
)
    Interprets data as if it were data received from a terminal process.
.P
.B feedChild
(
.I
data
)
    Sends a data to the terminal as if it were data entered by the user at the keyboard.
.P
.B findDlg
()
    Opens search entry.
.P
.B findNext
()
    Searches the next string matching search regex.
.P
.B findPrev
()
    Searches the previous string matching search regex.
.P
.B forEachRow
(
.I func
)
    For each terminal row in entire scrollback buffer executes function passing row as argument.
    func \(hy function to be called.
.P
.B forEachVisibleRow
(
.I func
)
    For each visible terminal row executes function passing row as argument.
    func \(hy function to be called.
.P
.B loadSessionDlg
()
    Displays "Load session" dialog.
.P
.B nextTab
()
    Activates next tab.
.P
.B openTab
(
.I tabInfo
)
    Opens new tab.
    tabinfo \(hy table of TermitTabInfo with tab settings.
.P
.B paste
()
    Pastes tab's buffer.
.P
.B preferencesDlg
()
    Displays "Preferences" dialog.
.P
.B prevTab
()
    Activates previous tab.
.P
.B quit
()
    Quit.
.P
.B reconfigure
()
    Sets all configurable variables to defaults and forces rereading rc.lua.
.P
.B saveSessionDlg
()
    Displays "Save session" dialog.
.P
.B selection
()
    Returns selected text from current tab.
.P
.B setColormap
(
.I colormap
)
    Changes colormap for active tab.
    colormap \(hy array with 8 or 16 or 24 colors.
.P
.B setEncoding
(
.I encoding
)
    Changes encoding for active tab.
    encoding \(hy string with encoding name.
.P
.B setKbPolicy
(
.I kb_policy
)
    Sets keyuboard policy for shortcuts.
    kb_policy \(hy string with one of those values:
        keycode \(hy use hardware keyboard codes (XkbLayout\(hyindependent)
        keysym \(hy use keysym values (XkbLayout\(hydependent)
.P
.B setOptions
(
.I opts
)
    Changes default options.
    opts \(hy TermitOptions table with new options.
.P
.B setTabBackgroundColor
(
.I color
)
    Changes background color for active tab.
    color \(hy string with new color.
.P
.B setTabFont
(
.I font
)
    Changes font for active tab.
    font \(hy string with new font.
.P
.B setTabForegroundColor
(
.I color
)
    Changes foreground (e.g. font) color for active tab.
    color \(hy string with new color.
.P
.B setTabPos
(
.I newPos
)
    Changes position for active tab.
    newPos \(hy number with new tab position.
.P
.B setTabTitle
(
.I tabTitle
)
    Changes title for active tab.
    tabTitle \(hy string with new tab title.
.P
.B setTabTitleDlg
()
    Displays "Set tab title" dialog.
.P
.B setWindowTitle
(
.I title
)
    Changes termit window title.
    title \(hy string with new title.
.P
.B spawn
(
.I command
)
    Spawns command (works via shell).
    command \(hy string with command and arguments.
.P
.B toggleMenubar
()
    Displays or hides menubar.
.P
.P
.B toggleTabbar
()
    Displays or hides tabbar.
.P

.B "Types:"

.B TermitCursorBlinkMode
\(hy one of those string values:
    System              Follow GTK+ settings for cursor blinking
    BlinkOn             Cursor blinks
    BlinkOff            Cursor does not blink
.P
.B TermitCursorShape
\(hy one of those string values:
    Block               Draw a block cursor
    Ibeam               Draw a vertical bar on the left side of character
    Underline           Draw a horizontal bar below the character
.P
.B TermitEraseBinding
\(hy one of those string values:
    Auto                VTE_ERASE_AUTO
    AsciiBksp           VTE_ERASE_ASCII_BACKSPACE
    AsciiDel            VTE_ERASE_ASCII_DELETE
    EraseDel            VTE_ERASE_DELETE_SEQUENCE
    EraseTty            VTE_ERASE_TTY
.P
For detailed description look into Vte docs.
.P
.B TermitKeybindings
\(hy table with predefined keybindings.
    closeTab            'Ctrl\(hyw'
    copy                'Ctrl\(hyInsert'
    nextTab             'Alt\(hyRight'
    openTab             'Ctrl\(hyt'
    paste               'Shift\(hyInsert'
    prevTab             'Alt\(hyLeft'
.P
.B TermitMatch
\(hy table for matches.
    field name          match regular expression
    field value         lua callback for action on Left\(hyclick.
.P
.B TermitMenuItem
\(hy table for menuitems.
    accel               accelerator for menuitem. String with keybinding
    action              lua function to execute when item activated
    name                name for menuitem
.P
.B TermitOptions
\(hy table with termit options.
    allowChangingTitle  auto change title (similar to xterm)
    audibleBell         enables audible bell
    backgroundColor     background color
    backspaceBinding    reaction on backspace key (one of TermitEraseBinding)
    colormap            array with 8 or 16 or 24 colors
    cursorBlinkMode     cursor blink mode (one of TermitCursorBlinkMode)
    cursorShape         cursor shape (one of TermitCursorShape)
    deleteBinding       reaction on delete key (one of TermitEraseBinding)
    encoding            default encoding
    fillTabbar          expand tabs' titles to fill whole tabbar
    font                font name
    foregroundColor     foreground color
    geometry            cols x rows to start with
    getTabTitle         lua function to generate new tab title
    getWindowTitle      lua function to generate new window title
    hideMenubar         hide menubar
    hideSingleTab       hide tabbar when only 1 tab present
    hideTabbar          hide tabbar
    hideTitlebarWhenMaximized hide window titlebar when mazimized
    matches             table with items of TermitMatch type
    scrollbackLines     the length of scrollback buffer
    scrollOnKeystroke   enables scroll to the bottom when the user presses a key
    scrollOnOutput      enables scroll to the bottom when new data is received
    setStatusbar        lua function to generate new statusbar message
    showScrollbar       display scrollbar
    showBorder          show notebook borders
    startMaximized      maximize window on start
    tabName             default tab name
    tabPos              tabbar position (Top, Bottom, Left, Right)
    tabs                table with items of TermitTabInfo type
    urgencyOnBell       set WM\(hyhint 'urgent' on termit window when bell
    wordCharExceptions  additional word characters (double click selects word)
.P
.B TermitTabInfo
\(hy table with tab settings:
    command             tab start command
    encoding            current tab encoding
    font                font string
    fontSize            font size
    pid                 process id
    title               tab title
    workingDir          tab working dir
.P
.B "Globals:"

.B tabs
is the array with settings for all tabs. Access specific tab by index.
.RS
.SH EXAMPLES
Look inside provided rc.lua.example.
.SH BUGS
After start sometimes there is black screen. Resizing termit window helps.
.P
In options table 'tabs' field should be the last one. When loading all settings are applied in the same order as they are set in options table. So if you set tabs and only then colormap, these tabs would have default colormap.
.SH AUTHOR
Evgeny Ratnikov <ratnikov.ev at gmail dot com>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR lua (1)
